I. GitHub Desktop: Downloading lecture files


a) Download and Install: https://desktop.github.com/download/


b) Sign In: Open GitHub Desktop and sign in with your GitHub account (or skip this step and proceed).


c) Get Lectures (Clone):
1. In GitHub Desktop, go to File > Clone Repository...
2. Select URL tab.
3. Paste the lecture's repository URL (from your instructor).
4. Pick a folder on your computer to save them.
5. Click Clone.


d) Check for Updates (Fetch):
1. Click Fetch origin at the top-middle.
2. If there are new updates, you'll see "Pull origin". 


e) Download Updates (Pull):
1. If "Pull origin" appears, click it to get the latest lecture files. 


NOTE:
Always copy lecture files before you edit them. Changing the original files might stop you from getting future updates. Work on copies to avoid problems.








II. Anaconda Navigator: Facilitates running lectures on VSC


a) Download and Install from "Distribution Installers": https://www.anaconda.com/download/success


b) On the main page look for Visual studio Code if you have it or else proceed to the next guide.


NOTE:
Anaconda comes with the Python Language with some extra functionalities. If you downloaded Anaconda Navigator, there's no need to
download Python anymore.








III. Visual Studio Code: Running lecture notebooks


a) Download and Install: https://code.visualstudio.com/download


b) Open VSC in Anaconda.


c) Downloading extensions:
1. In VSC, look for "extensions" on the left panel.
2. Download "Jupyter" and "Python" extensions.


d) Add the Lecture Folder to your Workspace (IMPORTANT AS WITHOUT IT YOU WILL ENCOUNTER ISSUES):
1. Go to Explorer (top-left corner, it has a folder symbol) > Either Open Folder if prompted or Right click and choose "Add Folder To Workspace".
2. Navigate to and select the folder where you Cloned the lectures using GitHub Desktop.
3. Click Add.


e) Explore Lectures:
1. You'll now see the lecture files listed on the left side in the Explorer panel.
2. Click on any file to open it in the main editor window.


f) Running Codes:
1. You can also run codes by pressing Ctrl/Cmd + Enter on the selected cell, it would then ask for a python kernel.
2. If you opened VSC with Anaconda Navigator, proceed to click on "Python Environments" then "base".


NOTE:
You would need to open VSC through Anaconda Navigator to see the "base" environment. Otherwise, one can choose to download the Python
language instead.








IV. Cursor (Optional): AI assisted Code writing


a) Download and login: https://cursor.com/downloads


b) Add the Lecture Folder to your Workspace:
1. Click on Open Project > Choose Folder to work with


c) Works the same as Visual Studio Code, with the addition of AI assistant tool on the right panel.